---
layout: post
title:  "Predicting Oral Disintegrating Tablet Formulations by Neural Network Techniques"
date:   2017-11-01 
categories: Pharmaceutics 
author: Run Han, Yilong Yang, Xiaoshan Li, Defang Ouyang
---

Oral disintegrating tablets (ODTs) is a novel dosage form that can be dissolved on the tongue within 3min or less especially for geriatric and pediatric patients. Current ODT formulation studies usually rely on the personal experience of pharmaceutical experts and trial-and-error in the laboratory, which is inefficient and time-consuming. 

### Aim
The aim of current research was to establish the prediction model of ODT formulations with direct compression process by artificial neural network (ANN) and deep neural network (DNN) techniques. 

### Method
145 formulation data were extracted from Web of Science. All data sets were divided into three parts: training set (105), validation set (20) and testing set (20). Artificial neural network (ANN) and deep neural network (DNN) were compared for the prediction of the disintegrating time.

#### Artificial Neural Network (ANN)
{% include img.html url="ann.png" %}
#### Deep Neural Network (DNN)
{% include img.html url="dnn.png" %}

### Results 
The accuracy of the ANN model has reached 0.9238, 0.9000 and 0.6570 on the training set, validation set and testing set respectively, whereas that of the DNN model was 0.9048, 0.9000 and 0.8500, respectively. Compared with the ANN, the deep-learning model showed the better prediction for ODT formulations. 

| Network | Training Set (%) | Validation Set (%) | Testing Set (%) |
|:-------:|:----------------:|:------------------:|:---------------:|
|   ANN   |       92.38      |        90.00       |      65.70      |
|   DNN   |       90.48      |        90.00       |      85.00      |

### Conclusion
It is the first time that DNN with the improved dataset selection algorithm is applied to formulation prediction on small data. The proposed predictive approach could evaluate the critical parameters about quality control of formulation, and guide research and process development. The implementation of this prediction model could effectively reduce drug product development timeline and material usage, and proactively facilitate the development of a robust drug product.
